README.md, before:

# joostvanveen/laravel-litespeedcache

A Laravel wrapper for joostvanveen/litespeedcache. If you wish to use Litespeed Cache outside of Laravel check out this framework agnostic [https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache](https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache) 

## Installation
Require the package using composer:
```
composer require joostvanveen/laravel-litespeedcache
```

Enable the Litespeed in your .htaccess file.
```
<IfModule LiteSpeed>
    # Enable public cache
    CacheEnable public /
    
    # Enable private cache if you need to
    CacheEnable private /
    
    # Check the public cache
    CacheLookup public on
    
    # Ignore normal Cache Control headers
    CacheIgnoreCacheControl On
    
    # Maximum expiration time in seconds
    CacheMaxExpire 604800
</IfModule>
``` 

## Usage

### Facade

The package registers `\Joostvanveen\Litespeedcache\Cache` as a facade and sets default config values for 
`litespeedcache.defaults.enabled`,
`litespeedcache.defaults.type`,
`litespeedcache.defaults.lifetime`,
`litespeedcache.defaults.excludedUris`,
and `litespeedcache.defaults.excludedQueryStrings`.

```php
use LitespeedCache;

[...]

// Cache use all default settings from config.
LitespeedCache::cache();

// Purge the cache
LitespeedCache::purge();
``` 

You can use all methods from `\Joostvanveen\Litespeedcache\Cache`, see [https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/README.md) for full documentation.

Some examples:
```php
// Full options example
// You can also set $excludedUris and $excludedQueryStrings in config.
$excludedUris = [
    'checkout*',
    'admin*',
];
$excludedQueryStrings = [
    '*direction=*',
];
LitespeedCache::setType('private')->setLifetime(120)
                                  ->addTags(['articles', 'en_GB'])
                                  ->addVary('value=mysubdomain')
                                  ->setExcludedUrls($excludedUris)
                                  ->setExcludedQueryStrings($excludedQueryStrings)
                                  ->cache();
                                  
// Purge cache using tags.
LitespeedCache::addTags('articles')->purge();
```

### Config
Default values are set in a config file.
 
To be able to adjust the configuration for this package, publish the configuration files to your project's `/config` folder like so:
```php
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Joostvanveen\LaravelLitespeedcache\LitespeedCacheServiceProvider" --tag=config
```

The config file adds the following settings to your Laravel configuration:
```php
config('litespeedcache.defaults.enabled') // true
config('litespeedcache.defaults.use_middleware') // true
config('litespeedcache.defaults.type') // 'public'
config('litespeedcache.defaults.lifetime') // 240 minutes
config('litespeedcache.defaults.excludedUris') // Array of URIs that should not be cached, can contain wildcards like '/admin*'
config('litespeedcache.defaults.excludedQueryStrings') // Array of query strings that should not be cached, can contain wildcards like '*utm_source=*'
```

### Middleware
By default, the package contains a middleware that caches all pages (except cli, ajax andd http verbs other than GET and HEAD).

You can find this middleware at `src/Middlewares/Cache.php`.

If you want to use your own middleware, you can disable the default middleware by setting the config value `litespeedcache.defaults.use_middleware` to `false`

1. Publish the config settings to your Laravel project.
```php
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Joostvanveen\LaravelLitespeedcache\LitespeedCacheServiceProvider" --tag=config
```

2. Set `use_middleware` to `false`
```php
<?php

return [
    'defaults' => [
        'enabled' => true, 
        'use_middleware' => false, // Set Litespeed Cache Middleware to inactive
        'type' => 'public', 
        'lifetime' => 240, 
    ],
];
```

3. Create a middleware class
```php
php artisan make:middleware LitespeedCache
``` 

4. Edit your middleware
```php
<?php

namespace App\Http\Middleware;

use Closure;
use Joostvanveen\LaravelLitespeedcache\Facades\LitespeedCache as LitespeedCacheFacade;

class LitespeedCache
{

    /**
     * Handle an incoming request.
     *
     * @param \Illuminate\Http\Request $request
     * @param \Closure $next
     *
     * @return mixed
     */
    public function handle($request, Closure $next)
    {
        $excludedUris = [
            'checkout*',
            'admin*',
        ];
        
        LitespeedCacheFacade::setEnabled(config('litespeedcache.defaults.enabled'))
                            ->setType(config('litespeedcache.defaults.type'))
                            ->setLifetime(config('litespeedcache.defaults.lifetime'))
                            ->setExcludedUrls($excludedUris)
                            ->cache();

        return $next($request);
    }
}
```

## joostvanveen/litespeedcache documentation

You can find the Litespeed Cache documentation here [https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/README.md)

## Litespeed documentation

You can find the Litespeed Cache documentation here [https://www.litespeedtech.com/support/wiki/doku.php/litespeed_wiki:cache:developer_guide:response_headers](https://www.litespeedtech.com/support/wiki/doku.php/litespeed_wiki:cache:developer_guide:response_headers)

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## Changelog
[Changelog](/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## License
[MIT](/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

Fixed bug where default middleware was not loaded.

README.md, after:

# joostvanveen/laravel-litespeedcache

A Laravel wrapper for joostvanveen/litespeedcache. If you wish to use Litespeed Cache outside of Laravel check out this framework agnostic [https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache](https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache) 

## Installation
Require the package using composer:
```
composer require joostvanveen/laravel-litespeedcache
```

Enable the Litespeed in your .htaccess file.
```
<IfModule LiteSpeed>
    # Enable public cache
    CacheEnable public /
    
    # Enable private cache if you need to
    CacheEnable private /
    
    # Check the public cache
    CacheLookup public on
    
    # Ignore normal Cache Control headers
    CacheIgnoreCacheControl On
    
    # Maximum expiration time in seconds
    CacheMaxExpire 604800
</IfModule>
``` 

## Usage

This package adds a `LitespeedCache` cache facade for easy use and sets middleware that automatically caches all requests, according to the config settings.

You can set which URLs (for instance any `adminconsole*`) and query strings not to cache in config.
If you want to preview a page without cache, simply add `?cache_bypass=1` to a URL, or set a `cache_bypass` cookie with a vale of 1.

If you want to set your own middleware, you can set the package to **not** use the default middleware.
 
### Configuration
To be able to adjust the configuration for this package, publish the configuration files to your project's `/config` folder like so:
```php
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Joostvanveen\LaravelLitespeedcache\LitespeedCacheServiceProvider" --tag=config
```

The config file adds the following settings to your Laravel configuration:
```php
config('litespeedcache.defaults.enabled') // true
config('litespeedcache.defaults.use_middleware') // true
config('litespeedcache.defaults.type') // 'public'
config('litespeedcache.defaults.lifetime') // 240 minutes
config('litespeedcache.defaults.excludedUris') // Array of URIs that should not be cached, can contain wildcards like '/admin*'
config('litespeedcache.defaults.excludedQueryStrings') // Array of query strings that should not be cached, can contain wildcards like '*utm_source=*'
```

### Facade

The package registers `\Joostvanveen\Litespeedcache\Cache` as a facade and sets default config values for 
`litespeedcache.defaults.enabled`,
`litespeedcache.defaults.type`,
`litespeedcache.defaults.lifetime`,
`litespeedcache.defaults.excludedUris`,
and `litespeedcache.defaults.excludedQueryStrings`.

```php
use LitespeedCache;

[...]

// Cache use all default settings from config.
LitespeedCache::cache();

// Purge the cache
LitespeedCache::purge();
``` 

You can use all methods from `\Joostvanveen\Litespeedcache\Cache`, see [https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/README.md) for full documentation.

Some examples:
```php
// Full options example
// You can also set $excludedUris and $excludedQueryStrings in config.
$excludedUris = [
    'checkout*',
    'admin*',
];
$excludedQueryStrings = [
    '*direction=*',
];
LitespeedCache::setType('private')->setLifetime(120)
                                  ->addTags(['articles', 'en_GB'])
                                  ->addVary('value=mysubdomain')
                                  ->setExcludedUrls($excludedUris)
                                  ->setExcludedQueryStrings($excludedQueryStrings)
                                  ->cache();
                                  
// Purge cache using tags.
LitespeedCache::addTags('articles')->purge();
```

### Middleware
By default, the package contains a middleware that caches all pages (except cli, ajax andd http verbs other than GET and HEAD).

You can find this middleware at `src/Middlewares/Cache.php`.

If you want to use your own middleware, you can disable the default middleware by setting the config value `litespeedcache.defaults.use_middleware` to `false`

1. Publish the config settings to your Laravel project.
```php
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Joostvanveen\LaravelLitespeedcache\LitespeedCacheServiceProvider" --tag=config
```

2. Set `use_middleware` to `false`
```php
<?php

return [
    'defaults' => [
        'enabled' => true, 
        'use_middleware' => false, // Set Litespeed Cache Middleware to inactive
        'type' => 'public', 
        'lifetime' => 240, 
    ],
];
```

3. Create a middleware class
```php
php artisan make:middleware LitespeedCache
``` 

4. Edit your middleware
```php
<?php

namespace App\Http\Middleware;

use Closure;
use Joostvanveen\LaravelLitespeedcache\Facades\LitespeedCache as LitespeedCacheFacade;

class LitespeedCache
{

    /**
     * Handle an incoming request.
     *
     * @param \Illuminate\Http\Request $request
     * @param \Closure $next
     *
     * @return mixed
     */
    public function handle($request, Closure $next)
    {
        $excludedUris = [
            'checkout*',
            'admin*',
        ];
        
        LitespeedCacheFacade::setEnabled(config('litespeedcache.defaults.enabled'))
                            ->setType(config('litespeedcache.defaults.type'))
                            ->setLifetime(config('litespeedcache.defaults.lifetime'))
                            ->setExcludedUrls($excludedUris)
                            ->cache();

        return $next($request);
    }
}
```

## joostvanveen/litespeedcache documentation

You can find the Litespeed Cache documentation here [https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/README.md)

## Litespeed documentation

You can find the Litespeed Cache documentation here [https://www.litespeedtech.com/support/wiki/doku.php/litespeed_wiki:cache:developer_guide:response_headers](https://www.litespeedtech.com/support/wiki/doku.php/litespeed_wiki:cache:developer_guide:response_headers)

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## Changelog
[Changelog](/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## License
[MIT](/joostvanveen/litespeedcache/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
